## Problem

https://media.thoughtspot.com/35707/1762519413-image.png

As we can observe, there is a downwards trend near the end of the July month and since the company does not know what could have caused this, its our job to find, as data analysts, what could have brought the trend downwards on all platforms at that time.


## Data used

All this data is obtained in Mode's case study and is free to obtain. It ressembles a real company's data structure.

### "tutorial.yammer_users"

This table includes one row per user, with descriptive information about that user's account and has the following structure:

- **user_id:**  
  A unique ID per user. Can be joined to `user_id` in either of the other tables.
- **created_at:**  
  The time the user was created (first signed up).
- **state:**  
  The state of the user (`active` or `pending`).
- **activated_at:**  
  The time the user was activated, if they are active.
- **company_id:**  
  The ID of the user's company.
- **language:**  
  The chosen language of the user.

---

### "tutorial.yammer_events"

This table includes one row per event, where an event is an action that a user has taken on Yammer. These events include login events, messaging events, search events, events logged as users progress through a signup funnel, events around received emails. Uses the following structure:

- **user_id:**  
  The ID of the user logging the event. Can be joined to `user_id` in either of the other tables.
- **occurred_at:**  
  The time the event occurred.
- **event_type:**  
  The general event type. There are two values in this dataset:  
  - `"signup_flow"` — refers to actions during the user authentication/signup process  
  - `"engagement"` — refers to product usage after signup
- **event_name:**  
  The specific action the user took. Possible values include:  
  - `create_user` — User is added to the database during signup  
  - `enter_email` — User begins signup by entering their email  
  - `enter_info` — User enters personal information  
  - `complete_signup` — User completes the signup process  
  - `home_page` — User loads the home page  
  - `like_message` — User likes a message  
  - `login` — User logs into the platform  
  - `search_autocomplete` — User selects a search autocomplete suggestion  
  - `search_run` — User runs a search query  
  - `search_click_result_X` — User clicks search result X (1–10)  
  - `send_message` — User posts a message  
  - `view_inbox` — User views their inbox
- **location:**  
  The country from which the event was logged (based on IP address).
- **device**  
  The model of device used to log the event.

---

### "tutorial.yammer_emails"

This table contains events specific to the sending of emails. It is similar in structure to the events table above:

- **user_id:**  
  The ID of the user to whom the event relates. Can be joined to `user_id` in either of the other tables.
- **occurred_at:**  
  The time the event occurred.
- **action:**  
  The name of the event that occurred. Possible values include:  
  - `"sent_weekly_digest"` — User received a weekly digest email  
  - `"email_open"` — User opened the email  
  - `"email_clickthrough"` — User clicked a link in the email

---

